2.2.3 Trusted Peripheral (TPer)
Begin Informative Content
The Trusted Peripheral (TPer) resides in the Storage Device. The TPer manages trusted storage-
related functions and data structures. Two main aspects to the TPer use cases as they pertain to the
TCG Storage Architecture are:
a. Data confidentiality and access control over TPer features and capabilities:  TPer
functions and capabilities are built upon policy driven setup and the use of cryptographic
access control over TPer content. Such features and capabilities include access controlled
readable and writeable data areas, and access control to built-in firmware functions or
hardware functions in the TPer.  It is possible for a single trusted host application to gain
exclusive access to subsets of these features and capabilities. The protection provided by this
exclusive access extends to confidentiality of instructions and data in transit between the
trusted host application (or a TPM it uses) and the TPer.
b. TPers and Hosts bilateral enrollment and connection: Enrollment establishes the conditions
under which data/instruction connections are established between TPers and hosts.  The
access control conditions for enrollment could be different than those for connection.  The
data/instruction consequences of a failure to be enrolled or connected MAY be different for
different TPers and hosts.  The permissions/authorizations required for enrollment and
connection of a TPer with a host could be different than the permissions/authorizations required
for enrollment and connection of a Host with a TPer.
The TCG Storage Architecture provides for a system of tables where the content and meaning of the
table entries are potentially different for different types of Storage Devices with different features and
capabilities.
This TCG Storage Architecture’s access control system scales with the available Storage Device
resources. Storage Device resources include processor performance, memory space, and media
capacity. TPer data tables, methods, and capabilities are able to  be fixed (and limited) or host
application-definable up to the limit of the Storage Device’s available resources.
End Informative Content
