2.3.1 Host <–> TPer Communication Infrastructure
Begin Informative Content
The Host communicates with SPs using interface commands generically known as "Trusted
Commands."  Trusted Commands are interface-specific protocols (i.e. T10 SECURITY PROTOCOL
IN/OUT Protocol 0x01-0x06, or T13 TRUSTED SEND/RECEIVE Protocol 0x01-0x06).  This
specification defines the payload content of those commands.
The SP communication protocol that defines the contents of Trusted Commands uses a layered
communication system consisting of the following elements:
a. Methods.
b. Transactions.
c. Sessions.
Figure 2  Communications Infrastructure


The only way to communicate with an SP is via a session.  Only the host is able to open a session.
Methods are invoked within sessions.
Normally, when the methods and associated responses are completed, the host closes the session.
Other interface-specific commands (i.e. ATA/SCSI) are able to be interleaved among IF-SEND/IF-
RECV commands at any time.
Secure Messaging enables the host and TPer to pass encrypted or integrity protected messages
(methods and their associated responses) during sessions. Message encryption is recommended but
not required.  When secure messaging is in use, it is done regardless of and in addition to any
encryption done on the communications channel.
In the simplest communications case the host is just the platform host to which the TPer is directly
attached or attached over a network. The host application could also be some other platform host that
communicates with the immediate platform host, which then relays the session stream to the TPer over
a network.   In another case, the TPer could be wirelessly connected to a host application, or part of a
SAN and connected to multiple hosts.  The TPer could be directly attached to the platform host, and
connected to multiple Host Applications either also directly attached to that platform, attached remotely,
or both.
End Informative Content
If the device is capable, one or more Read-Only sessions MAY be established simultaneously to a
single SP.  Typically, changes made to an SP during a Read-Only session SHALL NOT persist past the
end of that session.  Non-transient changes that persist past the end of a session are noted, where
applicable.  A case of a non-transient change permitted in a Read-Only session is automatic forensic
logging, if enabled.
Read-Write Sessions MAY or MAY NOT alter persistent state information (table content).  A Read-Write
session (one which has the capability of making non-transient changes to an SP) SHALL be unable to
run simultaneously with any other sessions to the same SP.
