2.3.4 Preliminary Architectural Components
This section identifies a series of architectural components in this specification that are to be
considered as preliminary.  Implementations of any these elements as defined in this specification MAY
NOT be compliant with either SSCs or future versions of this specification.
a. Secure session start up.  This applies to challenge response authentication and key
exchange that occurs during session startup.  In addition, if two SP Authorities refer to the
same ResponseExch authority, and therefore use the same public-private keypair for
encrypting the HostSessionKey to be sent to the TPer,, then there is an escalation replay
attack possible where one authority can successfully replay the commands of another.
b. Session Timeouts, Flow Control, and Session Reliability in regards to control
sessions.  This includes, but is not limited to, session timeouts, acknowledgements,
negative acknowledgements, transmission timeouts, packet sequence numbers, and credit
exchange.
c. The Log Template and related logging functionality.  In addition to the Log Template,
this applies to components in other templates that relate to logging, such as those in the
Base Template's Authority and AccessControl tables.  Methods to manage the logging
functionality presented in the AccessControl table are also TBD.
d. The Clock Template and functionality related to timekeeping.  In addition to the Clock
Template, this applies to components in other templates that relate to timekeeping, such as
those in the Base Template's Authority table.
e. Admin SP discovery mechanisms related to TemplateID columns.  This also applies to
the TemplateID column in tables in Templates other than the Admin Template.
f.
Default ACL values for access control associations when a new table or object is
created.  This affects the values are placed in the ACL columns of the AccessControl
table when a new table or object is created and associated rows are created in the Table,
Column, ACE, and AccessControl tables.
g. Mechanisms for retrieval of meta-ACL column values from the AccessControl table.
h. The Crypto Template and functionality related to host-requested on-device
cryptographic operations.  This includes on-device encryption, decryption, etc.  This does
not include the Random method.
i.
Certificate related components, including the
Certificates table and the
PresentCertificate column of the Authority table.
j.
Issuance related components, including the IssueSP method.
3 Architecture Elements
