3.2.5 Tables
Tables SHALL be stored in SP-specific parts of the secure storage area of the TPer. The SP-related
secure storage area(s) of a TPer SHALL only be accessible via the host interface-specific IF-SEND and
IF-RECV commands.  Table content SHALL NOT, unless otherwise stated, be part of the User
Addressable Logical Block Address space on the Storage Device and therefore is not affected by the
partitioning or formatting of the Storage Device by the host operating system.
Begin Informative Content
All persistent data for SPs are stored in tables – the only data for an SP that persists past the end of a
session is the data that is stored in tables. Tables survive operations on user-areas, such as
reformatting.
A table is defined as a grid with columns and addressable rows. At each column and row intersection
there is a cell. All the cells in a column have the same type. The column types for a host-created table
are specified at table creation.
For some SSCs, the number of rows in a table whose size is not specified is completely determined
when it is created (additional rows are not able to be allocated), but other SSCs define tables whose
size is not specified with a dynamically allocable number of rows. If an SSC permits additional rows to
be added to a table, then the number of rows specified at table creation is the initial number of rows
allocated for that table.
End Informative Content
A table name or table column name MAY be up to 32 bytes in length. By convention, the names
assigned in this document consist of ASCII characters, the first of which is a letter and others are
letters, digits or underscores.  Adjacent underscores do not occur. All names are case sensitive.
Within an SP, tables MAY be created and deleted. For each table, rows MAY be created and deleted
(except within a Byte table – see 3.2.5.1), but columns are created only when the table is created.
Tables MAY contain zero or more rows.  A specific Security Subsystem Class MAY disallow the
creation of any of these.
Each SP has a set of metadata tables (such as the Table table, Column table, etc.) that describes all
the tables of the SP including the metadata tables themselves.
Access control provides a means to limit the methods that MAY be successfully invoked on tables, or
particular rows or cells of tables.
Some table columns represent control points for functionality provided by an SP, either based on the
templates incorporated into the SP, or on the underlying TPer implementation.  If the functionality
represented by a particular column or set of columns as defined in this Specification is not provided by
an SP, then access to the table columns that represent that functionality MAY be restricted.
