3.2.2.4.2 Unexpected Tokens
An unexpected token is an otherwise valid and supported token that, based on the construction of a
Subpacket payload, is not a token of the type that is expected, by the construction of the Subpacket
payload, to occupy a particular position in that payload.
Begin Informative Content
For example, in the construction of a method invocation, the beginning of the Subpacket payload
(discounting empty atoms) has the following structure:
1. Call – the Call token
2. InvokingID – a byte token
3. MethodID – a byte token
4. StartList – the StartList token
If the beginning of the Subpacket payload was sent by the host as follows: Call token + uinteger token +
byte token + StartList token; then the uinteger token that appears between Call and the byte token
would be unexpected, as the expected token is a byte token.
End Informative Content
Given no other encoding errors in the Subpacket payload, or any other layer of the protocol stack, the
result of inclusion of an unexpected token SHALL be on e of the following, based on the conditions
stated in each item:
1. For a regular session, abort the session (Note that the TPer is always free to abort the session
at any time for any reason).  For a control session, ignore the remainder of the packet.  Results
for methods that were completed before the violating token was encountered SHALL be sent to
the host.
2. If the unexpected token appears outside of a method invocation, at any position in the
subpacket other than after a Call token and before the next End of Data token after that Call
token, abort the session for a regular session or, for a control session, ignore the remainder of
the packet.  Results for methods that were completed before the violating token was
encountered SHALL be sent to the host.
3. If the unexpected token appears within a method invocation after the Call token but before a
the first StartList token after that Call token (ie in the method header) for a method invoked
within a regular session, the method fails and the TPer responds with an empty method result
list and a method status of NOT_AUTHORIZED.  If the unexpected token appears within a
method invocation after the Call token but before the first StartList token after that Call token for
a method invoked within a control session, the method SHALL be ignored.
4. If the unexpected token appears within a method invocation after parameter StartList and
before the End of Data token (ie in the method parameter list), the method fails and the TPer
responds with a method result list that MAY be empty, and a method status of
INVALID_PARAMETER.   This includes type mismatches for parameter values.
5. If the unexpected token appears between the StartList token that marks the beginning of the
Status List, and the EndList token that marks the end of the Status List, abort the session for a
regular session or, for a control session, ignore the remainder of the packet.  Results for
methods that were completed before the violating token was encountered SHALL be sent to the
host.  Note that the status list is a list of unsigned integers, so the appearance of a signed
integer, or any other non-uinteger token, is unexpected.
If empty atoms are supported, then they SHALL NOT be unexpected tokens.

