3.2.4.1 Method Syntax
A method invocation is made up of the following parts:
1. Method Header – The method header is made up of the InvokingID and the MethodID, and
identifies what method is being called and on what the method is operating.
1. InvokingID – This is the 8-byte UID of the table, object, or SP upon which the method is
being invoked.
a. For SP methods invoked within a session, the InvokingID SHALL be 0x00 0x00 0x00
0x00 0x00 0x00 0x00 0x01, which is used to signify “this SP”.
b. For methods invoked at the Session Manager Layer, the InvokingID SHALL be 0x00
0x00 0x00 0x00 0x00 0x00 0x00 0xFF, known as the "SMUID".
c. For other methods, this is the 8-byte UID of the table or object upon which the method
is being invoked.
2. MethodID – This is the 8-byte UID of the method being invoked.
a. For methods invoked within a session, this SHALL be the UID column value of the
object that represents the methed as assigned in the MethodID table.
b. For Session Manager Layer methods, this SHALL be the UID as assigned in Table
241.  There SHALL NOT be rows in the MethodID table that represent these methods.
2. Method Parameters – This is a list of the parameters submitted to the method.  These
parameters MAY be one of two types.
1. Required parameters – These parameters are required to be submitted to the method
invocation.  These parameters SHALL appear first in the method invocation, ahead of any
optional parameters, and SHALL be submitted in the order in which they are listed in a
method's signature as defined in this specification.
2. Optional parameters – These parameters SHALL NOT be required to be submitted to the
method invocation.  Optional parameters that are submitted to a method invocation SHALL
be submitted after all required parameters, and SHALL appear in the order defined in this
specification.
a. Optional parameters are submitted to the method invocation as Named value pairs.
The Name portion of the Named value pair SHALL be a uinteger.  Starting at zero,
these uinteger values are assigned based on the ordering of the optional parameters
as defined in this document.
b. The first optional parameter in a method signature SHALL be represented by the
"name" zero (0x00) in the Named value pair when that method is invoked, and SHALL
thus have the format "0x00 = value" when that method is invoked.
c. Each optional parameter in a method signature after the first SHALL be represented by
the uinteger of the previous optional parameter indicated in the method's signature
incremented by one. Thus, the second optional parameter in an invocation of a
particular method SHALL have the format "0x01 = value".
