3.3.10 Synchronous Interface Communications
3.3.10.1 Introduction
Begin Informative Text
The communications protocol stack as described in this specification enables a fully asynchronous
exchange of data between host and TPer.  Using the communications stack in this manner is a matter
of arbitrarily interleaving IF-SEND commands with IF-RECV commands.
Asynchronous communications allows the host to transmit methods and data to the TPer without having
to retrieve the results of those methods before sending additional methods, and enables the TPer to
return method results upon request at arbitrary boundaries.  Flow control provides a mechanism for
buffer management to occur as data is successfully transmitted and received.
However, for some hosts and devices, these mechanisms are too complex and require more
processing capability and code space than is available.  For these situations, the synchronous
communications protocol stack is tailored to better meet the capabilities of host and TPer.
For instance, fixed buffer sizes coupled with restrictions on the relationship between the exchange of
IF-SEND and IF-RECV commands negates the need for flow control for buffer management.
End Informative Text
3.3.10.2 Interface Commands
This section defines the requirements imposed on the exchange of IF-SEND and IF-RECV commands.
3.3.10.2.1
Restrictions
The restrictions imposed on the exchange of IF-SEND and IF-RECV commands are as follows:
1. Any number of non IF-SEND/IF-RECV commands MAY be interleaved with IF-SEND/IF-RECV
commands.
2. The normal communications state of an Associated ComID SHALL be to await receipt of an IF-
SEND command for that ComID.
a. While awaiting receipt of an IF-SEND interface command, any received IF-SEND
command for that ComID SHALL be accepted (provided it meets the other
requirements such as not exceeding the maximum supported length).
b. Once the entire command payload has been received, the TPer SHALL return an
interface status to the host.
c. Any IF-RECV command received for the Associated ComID awaiting receipt of an IF-
SEND command SHALL return to the host a ComPacket with a Length field value of
zero, an OutstandingData field value of zero, and a MinTransfer field value of zero.
This signals to the host that there is no pending response data to retrieve.
3. After an IF-SEND command has been received, a command completion without error has been
returned, and the payload has been decoded without an error, the TPer SHALL NOT accept
another IF-SEND command for that ComID until the host has retrieved the entire response via
IF-RECV(s).
a. Any subsequently received IF-SEND commands for the specified ComID SHALL be
aborted at the interface level.  The interface status for this action SHALL be
"Synchronous Protocol Violation" (see [2]).
b. If the TPer has not sufficiently processed the command payload and prepared a
response, any IF-RECV command for that ComID SHALL receive a ComPacket with a
Length field value of zero (no payload), an OutstandingData field value of 0x01, and a
MinTransfer field value of zero.
c. If the TPer has sufficiently processed the command payload and prepared a response,
an IF-RECV command that requests a transfer length less than the amount of response
data the TPer has prepared SHALL reply with a ComPacket with a Length field value of
zero (no payload) and OutstandingData value of total bytes currently available, and
MinTransfer field value of the minimum request required to transfer a packet.
d. The SSC MAY additionally require that each method response be retrieved separately
(along with Control Tokens as determined by the TPer), via multiple IF-RECV
commands.  For these SSCs, if all responses have not been retrieved:
i. If additional responses are available, and the host has requested a transfer
length less than the minimum transfer required, the TPer SHALL respond to an
IF-RECV command with OutstandingData value of total bytes currently
available; and MinTransfer field value of the minimum request required to
transfer a packet.
ii. If additional responses are available and the host has requested a sufficient
transfer length, the TPer SHALL respond to an IF-RECV with OutstandingData
= 0x00, 0x01, or the amount of total bytes currently available; and MinTransfer
field value of zero or the minimum request required to transfer a packet.
iii. If no additional responses are prepared but more are to come, the TPer SHALL
respond to an IF-RECV command with OutstandingData field value of 0x01
and MinTransfer field value of Zero.  Table 45 summarizes the values of the
Length, OutstandingData, and MinTransfer fields of the packets returned to the
host by the TPer in response to an IF-RECV command.
A summary of the values for ComPacket fields is displayed in Table 45.
Table 45 IF-RECV ComPacket Field Values Summary
```markdown
| IF-RECV Length Field Value            | OutstandingData Field Value                                        | MinTransfer Field Value                         | Response(s) to come, no Response(s) available          |
|-------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------|
| 0x00                                | 0x01                                                             | 0x00                                           |                                                       |
| Response ready, insufficient transfer length request    | 0x00                             | Total bytes currently available                  | The minimum request required to transfer a packet      |
| Response, additional Response(s) available              | Data Length                     | Additional bytes available, not including the data transferred in the current ComPacket. | The minimum request required to transfer the next packet |
| Response, additional Response(s) to come, no Response(s) available | Data Length                     | 0x01                                           | 0x00                                                  |
| Response, all Response(s) returned – no further data    | Data Length                     | 0x00                                           | 0x00                                                  |
| All Response(s) returned – no further data              | 0x00                           | 0x00                                           |                                                       |
``` 

3.3.10.3 Synchronous Communications Restrictions
This section defines additional restrictions specific to the Synchronous Communications protocol.
a. Methods SHALL NOT span ComPackets.  In the case where an incomplete method is
submitted, if the TPer is able to identify the associated session, then that session SHALL
be aborted and a CloseSession MAY be prepared for delivery on that ComID's control
session.
b. The synchronous exchange of interface commands SHALL only apply to IF-SEND/IF-
RECV commands exchanged on Protocol ID 0x01, but SHALL NOT apply to Level 0
Discovery.
3.3.10.4 State Transition Diagram
The state transitions for the exchange of IF-SEND and IF-RECV commands are delineated in Figure
Figure 7 The states used are defined in 3.3.10.5, and the state transitions are defined in 3.3.10.6.
Figure 7  Synchronous Communications State Transition Diagram


3.3.10.5 State Descriptions
This section defines the states used in Figure 7
State “Power-Off (S0)” – In this state, power is removed from the TPer and it is completely
unresponsive.
State “Awaiting IF-SEND (S1)” – In this state, the TPer command interface is ready and there are no
outstanding IF-SEND/IF-RECV commands for the specified ComID. A command is “outstanding” if it
has entered the “Processing” or “Awaiting IF-RECV” state. A command is not considered “outstanding”
if it is in the TPer command queue awaiting initial processing by the device.
a. While in this state, if IF-SEND is received or dequeued with the ComID for this state
machine, the TPer MAY request command payload transfer and SHALL return interface
status to the host.
b. While in this state, if IF-RECV is received or dequeued with the ComID for this state
machine, the TPer SHALL return a response ComPacket the specified ExtendedComID
with the Length, OutstandingData, and MinTransfer fields set per “All Response(s) returned
– no further data” defined in Table 45.
State “Processing (S2)” – In this state, the TPer has begun processing the payload of an IF-SEND
command.
a. While in this state, the TPer SHALL terminate any received or dequeued IF-SEND
commands.  The interface status for this action SHALL be "Synchronous Protocol Violation"
(see [2]).
b. While in this state, the TPer SHALL return a response ComPacket for any received or
dequeued IF-RECV commands for the specified ExtendedComID with the Length,
OutstandingData, and MinTransfer fields set per “Response(s) to come, no Response(s)
available” defined in Table 45.
State “Awaiting IF-RECV (S3)” – The TPer has completely processed the TCG data payload and has
the associated TCG response ready for retrieval by the host.
a. While in this state, if IF-RECV is received or dequeued with the ComID for this state
machine and a transfer length less than the amount of response data staged for the
ComID, the TPer SHALL return a response ComPacket for the specified ExtendedComID
with the Length, OutstandingData, and MinTransfer fields set per “Response ready,
insufficient transfer length request” defined in Table 45.
b. While in this state, the TPer SHALL terminate any received or dequeued IF-SEND
command.  The interface status for this action SHALL be "Synchronous Protocol Violation"
(see [2]).
3.3.10.6 State Transitions
This section defines the state transitions for each valid ComID as presented in Figure 7
S0:S1 – This transition occurs automatically when the TPer is powered on.
S1:S0 – This transition occurs when the TPer is powered off.
S1:S1 – This transition occurs when:
a. The TPer receives an interface initiated TCG reset (see [2]), or
b. The TPer receives a Protocol Stack Reset Command for the ComID of this state machine
(see 3.3.4.7.5), or
c. The TPer detects an error in a received IF-SEND payload that prevents the TPer from
resolving an intended session for the IF-SEND command payload, or other error that
prevents the TPer from processing the command (see 3.3.10.7), or
d. The TPer receives an IF-RECV command for this ComID (see the "Awaiting IF-SEND"
state description in 3.3.10.5).
S1:S2 – This transition occurs when an IF-SEND command with the ComID associated with this state
machine is received or dequeued and successfully completes data transfer of the command payload.
S2:S0 – This transition occurs when the TPer is powered off.
S2:S1 – This transition occurs when:
a. The TPer receives an interface initiated TCG reset (see [2]), or
b. The TPer receives a Protocol Stack Reset Command for the ComID of this state machine
(see 3.3.4.7.5), or
c. The TPer detects an error in the IF-SEND payload that prevents the TPer from resolving an
intended session for the IF-SEND command payload (see 3.3.10.7), or
d. If there is no action to be taken as a result of the received command, such as when the IF-
SEND command payload is a ComPacket with
a. no payload, or
b. one or more Packets all of which have no payload, or
c. The IF-SEND command payload is a ComPacket with one or more Packets all of which
have SubPackets that either have no payload or have a payload that consists entirely
of Empty Atoms.
S2:S2 – This transition occurs when:
a. The TPer receives an IF-SEND for this ComID (see the "Processing" state description in
3.3.10.5), or
b. The TPer receives an IF-RECV for this ComID and processing has not completed to the
point where data is available for retrieval by the host (see the "Processing" state description
in 3.3.10.5).
S2:S3 – This transition occurs when the TPer has completely processed the contents of the IF-SEND
command and has a complete response available for retrieval by the host. A separate response MAY
be generated for each method in the IF-SEND.
S3:S0 – This transition occurs when the TPer is powered off.
S3:S1 – This transition occurs when the TPer receives:
a. An interface initiated TCG reset (see [2]), or
b. A Protocol Stack Reset Command for the ComID of this state machine (see 3.3.4.7.5),  or
c. An IF-RECV able to retrieve the entire response resulting from the IF-SEND, or
d. An IF-RECV for the last of multiple responses resulting from the IF-SEND.
S3:S2 – This transition occurs when the TPer receives an IF-RECV able to retrieve a response
resulting from an IF-SEND but still has additional responses to process from that IF-SEND.
S3:S3 – This transition occurs when:
a. The TPer receives an IF-SEND for this ComID (see the "Awaiting IF-RECV" state
description in 3.3.10.5), or
b. An IF-RECV is received or dequeued with the ComID for this state machine and a transfer
length less than the amount of response data staged for the ComID (see the "Awaiting IF-
RECV" state description in 3.3.10.5), or
c. The TPer receives an IF-RECV able to retrieve a response resulting from an IF-SEND, and
additional responses are still available.  The TPer SHALL a response ComPacket for the
specified ExtendedComID with the Length, OutstandingData, and MinTransfer fields set per
“Response, additional Response(s) available” defined in Table 45.
3.3.10.7 Error Handling
This section defines the manner in which violations of the restrictions on Interface Command payloads
SHALL be handled by the TPer.
a. If a violation of packet structure occurs such that the TPer is unable to resolve a valid Session
ID in an IF-SEND command, or if the restriction violation occurs due to violations of packet
requirements, the TPer SHALL ignore the entire packet and SHALL immediately transition to
the state of awaiting an IF-SEND command.
b. If a violation of packet structure occurs such that the TPer is able to resolve the Session ID, the
TPer SHALL close that session and MAY prepare for transmission the CloseSession method
for retrieval by the host.
c. The device SHALL abort at the interface level any IF-SEND command whose transfer length (in
bytes) is greater than the reported MaxComPacketSize for the corresponding ComID.  The
interface status for this action SHALL be "Invalid Transfer Length parameter on IF-SEND" (see
[2]).
d. For SSCs that require that entire method responses be retrieved, if data generated in response
to any single method in an IF-SEND command (together with required communications
overhead) does not fit entirely within the TPer's response buffer, the device SHALL NOT return
any part of that method response and SHALL instead return an empty results list with a status
code of RESPONSE_OVERFLOW in the status list.  Additionally, the TPer SHALL continue
processing methods and control tokens that had been sent in that command payload (if any).
