3.3.7.3 Transactions
Begin Informative Content
Transactions are used to provide a clean model for how changes to an SP are to take effect. They also
provide an easy way for host applications to handle error recovery.
End Informative Content
If a session is aborted, any open transactions SHALL be aborted.
Changes are successfully committed and made persistent (to the media, made visible to subsequent
sessions on the same SP, etc.) in 2 ways:
a. When a method is invoked outside of a transaction, and resolves successfully, changes
made by that method SHALL be committed and made persistent immediately.
b. When a method is invoked inside of a transaction or set of nested transactions, changes
made by that method SHALL be committed and made persistent when the top-level
transaction is committed.
Changes made within a transaction SHALL be visible within that transaction.  For instance, modification
of a table value within a transaction would result in the new value being returned by a Get method
invoked within that transaction. Those changes SHALL be made persistent when the top-level
transaction is committed.  If the transaction is aborted, those changes SHALL be rolled back.
Changes that affect other aspects of the TPer (i.e. hardware settings) SHALL occur when associated
changes are successfully committed.  This means that changes made during transactions that affect
the state of the device, such as changing media encryption keys or read/write lock state, SHALL NOT
occur until the changes are successfully committed.
Some changes MAY occur as exceptions to transactional rollback (i.e. logging), and SHALL commit
immediately even if they occur inside of a transaction or as a side effect of a method invocation that has
failed.
An aborted transaction SHALL only occur for one of two reasons:
a. At the request of the host, by host-transmission of the End Transaction token with a status
other than 0x00.
b. If an error occurs while committing the transaction (i.e. the host sends End Transaction with
a status of 0x00, but the TPer encounters some kind of error while committing the
transaction to media).
Specific transaction-related control tokens in the session stream, defined in the 3.2.2, serve to indicate
transaction start and end points.  If a transaction control token is received at a point in the session
stream that occurs within a method invocation, the TPer SHALL abort the session.
All transactions consist of the following steps:
1. The transaction is opened.
2. Zero or more method calls are made.
3. The transaction is either aborted or committed.
If a transaction is aborted all SP state SHALL be reset ("rolled-back") to its value at the time the
transaction was opened (e.g., authentication state), unless otherwise noted in this specification (e.g.,
logging). A transaction SHALL only be committed at the request of the host application.  The TPer
SHALL only commit or abort a transaction upon receipt of an End Transaction token from the host
except in the case when a session is aborted.
The failure or success of the methods encapsulated in the transaction SHALL NOT directly affect
whether or not the host is able to commit the transaction, but committing a transaction in which method
invocations have not succeeded MAY leave the SP in an intermediate (and potentially unrecoverable)
state. A failed method within a transaction SHALL NOT affect the state of the transaction or the state of
the SP within the transaction, unless otherwise noted (e.g., logging, PIN tries count, etc.).
The TPer SHALL guarantee that a transaction completely commits to media (persists) or completely
aborts. This means that the TPer SHALL arrange that if a power cycle, reset, or other event occurs in
the middle of a commit, when the TPer recovers the commit is either finished or all the changes are
aborted. This guarantees SP consistency and prevents power-off or reset attacks.
