3.3.2 The ComID
Begin Informative Content
The ComID is used to select the correct response data for the host.  The ComID allows the TPer to
identify the caller of the IF-RECV command and appropriately populate the payload for the command.
For dynamic assignment of ComIDs, in order to open a session with a particular SP on a TPer, the host
application starts by requesting a ComID from the TPer if it doesn't already have one that's active.
The TPer then issues a ComID to the host application.  Once the host application has a unique ComID,
the host is able to initiate the process of starting a session.
Once the session is started, the TPer associates the session number with the ComID.  In this way,
when an IF-RECV is sent to the TPer using Protocol ID of 0x01, the TPer is able to respond with a
payload containing only the packets for the session numbers associated with the ComID.  This allows
for multiple applications to be simultaneously communicating with the TPer without interfering with one
another.
In some situations it is useful to allow for a single entity, called the Host Session Manager, to manage
the TPer communications for a set of different applications running on the host.
To the TPer, communication with a single host application is no different than communication with a
Session Manager that acts as an intermediary for multiple host applications with which the TPer is
communicating.
End Informative Content
To enable a single host application to manage communications for multiple other applications, multiple
sessions MAY be opened with a single ComID.   All the sessions opened with a given ComID SHALL
be associated with it.
An application MAY open a single session to the TPer for itself, multiple sessions for itself, multiple
sessions for one or more other applications, multiple sessions for itself and one or more other
applications, or any other combination.
When an IF-RECV is sent to the TPer using a particular ComID, the TPer SHALL respond by putting
packets from the sessions associated with the ComID into the response.  If there are more pending
responses from the various sessions associated with the ComID than fits the IF-RECV, it is up to the
TPer to determine which packets to include.
Begin Informative Content
The number of packets/subpackets that are included in the response is a function of the amount of
available responses, the transfer length of the command, and the flow control mechanism.  The amount
of data still remaining to be retrieved and the minimum transfer length required to retrieve at least one
packet, at the time the ComPacket was generated, is reported in the ComPacket header.
End Informative Content
