3.3.3.1 Extended ComID
Begin Informative Content
Despite all the mechanisms in place, there is always the possibility that some application holds on to its
ComID for an extended period of time and not recognize that the ComID has become inactive and
(possibly) subsequently issued to another application.  Since there are only 61440 normal non-reserved
ComIDs, the probability of this occurring is not small enough to be neglected.  To help deal with this
issue the TPer makes use of Extended ComIDs.
End Informative Content
Extended ComIDs SHALL be 4 bytes long and have the first 2 bytes equal to the ComID.  The second 2
bytes make up the ComID Extension.
The MSB of the ComID is the first byte (MSB) of the Extended ComID, and the LSB of the ComID is the
second byte of the Extended ComID.  The TPer arbitrarily generates the remaining 2 bytes (the ComID
Extension) every time a ComID is issued.   The GET_COMID command returns the 4-byte Extended
ComID to the host.  There MAY be many Extended ComIDs associated with the same ComID over the
life of the TPer.  The ComID Extension associated with reserved ComIDs (0-4095) SHALL always be
0x0000.
The ComID Extension value of 0xFFFF is reserved to indicate that the host has attempted to
communicate using an inactive ComID.The ComID Extension for ComIDs that are not dynamically
assigned by the TPer SHALL be set to 0x0000.
The Extended ComID SHALL be in one of the following states
1. Inactive: The associated ComID is in the inactive state.
2. Issued: The Extended ComID has been issued (it was returned to the host during a successful
completion of a GET_COMID command) but no sessions have been started using the
associated ComID.
3. Associated:  One or more open sessions were open with the ComID.  These sessions are said
to be associated with the Extended ComID.
4. Invalid: The Extended ComID has not been issued since the last power cycle/reset, or has
become inactive and there exists another Extended ComID with the same associated ComID in
one of the active states (Issued or Associated).
The Extended ComID is used to determine if an application is using a conflicting ComID, i.e., if the
ComID the application is using has become inactive and subsequently assigned to another application.
When this happens, the application’s Extended ComID SHALL be invalid.  When the application makes
an inquiry to the TPer using the Extended ComID, the TPer SHALL respond with an indication that the
Extended ComID is invalid.
When the TPer receives a ComPacket (via IF-SEND) that contains a ComPacket with an invalid
Extended ComID, the TPer SHALL ignore and discard the payload of the ComPacket.
When the host receives a ComPacket (via IF-RECV) that contains an unexpected Extended ComID,
this is an indication to the host that it is using an invalid Extended ComID and that the ComID is being
used by another host or application.  The host SHOULD assume that any sessions it had open on that
ComID have been aborted.  To resume communications with the TPer, the host SHALL acquire a new
ComID.
