3.3.7.1.5 Ending Sessions
The Host or TPer is free at any time to end a session in which it is participating, but only the host
SHALL end the session successfully.
The session SHALL NOT be considered successfully closed until the party receiving the end of session
request has responded indicating whether or not it was able to comply with the session ending request.
Thus, a session is successfully ended when the TPer receives an End of Session token (see section
3.2.2.2) from the host and prepares a response with an End of Session token, and when transmission
acknowledgement for ending the session has been performed as noted in Section 3.3.9.5 (if
transmission acknowledgement is in use).
The host SHOULD NOT encode additional tokens after the End of Session token in a subpacket.
Additional tokens encoded after an End of Session token SHALL be ignored by the TPer.
When a session closes, TPer resources that had been reserved for use with that session SHALL be
released.  The release of resources is not dependent on whether the session closed successfully or
unsuccessfully – the end of the session releases the resources.
Sessions end unsuccessfully (abort) in a number of ways.  These include (but are not limited to):
a. If the TPer detects any violation of flow control.
b. If the host does not (or is unable to) send any additional packets to the TPer, and sends no
other communications, the TPer would time out while waiting for the communication from
the host.
c. One of the communicators reached its implementation-specific limit on the number of times
it re-sends a packet (due to negative acknowledgements or transmission timeouts while
waiting for acknowledgement).
If a session is ended in the middle of the transmission of a method call or its parameters, then the
method call SHALL be aborted in addition to the session being aborted. This is considered a fatal
session error indicating a communication synchronization error (or worse).
An aborted session causes the following to occur:
1. All uncommitted transactions SHALL be aborted.
2. All method processing for that session SHALL be aborted;
3. The TPer MAY transmit a CloseSession method on the Session Manager layer.
When a session is aborted, open transactions within that session SHALL be aborted, and any method
currently executing SHALL fail in its entirety.
The CloseSession method allows the TPer to notify the host that it has aborted a session.  The TPer
MAY send a CloseSession method on the Session Manager layer when it aborts a session.  This is
done by the TPer to notify the host that the TPer is ending the session.
Hardware resets and power cycles SHALL cause all open sessions to abort.
The host is able to abort a session by sending an End of Session token to the TPer.
