3.3.4 Protocol Layers
Begin Informative Content
In order to describe the overall process for establishing communication with the TPer and initiating a
session to an SP, it is necessary to partition the protocol stack into layers.   The commands in each
layer differ in the amount of functionality available.  The lower level allows only one-way communication
(TPer to host) and uses only simplistic byte field responses.  The higher layers have two-way
communication and use packets and methods.
Figure 5  depicts the protocol layers.
Figure 5  TPer-Host Communication Protocol Layers


a. Session layer:  This layer is entered when a session is successfully established between
the host application and an SP in the TPer.  Most of the commands and functionality
Payloads in this layer are packetized and tokenized.
b. Management layer:  This layer deals with establishing a session between an SP and a
host application.  Payloads in this layer are packetized and tokenized.
c. Communication (Com) layer:  In this layer the host application already has an assigned
ComID that is used for establishing two-way communication.  It is a bidirectional
communication/control layer.   This layer is used for management of ComIDs and dealing
with error conditions and other Storage Device management issues.
d. TPer layer:  This is the first entry point to the TPer.  This is a “one-way” communication
layer.  That is, only IF-RECV commands are dealt with in this layer.  The host application
does not have a ComID yet.  There is a set of reserved ComIDs that is used to invoke
special commands at this layer.
e. Interface layer: This portion of the stack contains the protocol for allowing the host to
control a specific Storage Device.  The interface protocol must support IF-SEND and IF-
RECV, i.e., have commands with the properties that are required for these TCG
commands.
f.
Transport layer:  This portion of the stack is responsible for transporting the data from one
particular host to one particular Storage Device and vice-versa.  An example is Fibre
Channel.
End Informative Content
