3.3.8.2 Buffer Management
Begin Informative Content
Flow control is used to keep a Host or TPer from overwhelming the other party with data during a
session. The exchange of credits permits data to be moved from one communicator to the other.
Before session data is able to be sent, the receiver needs to notify the sender that it is ready to receive
data and how much data it is able to receive. This is done by sending a Credit Control Subpacket in the
direction opposite that of the data.
End Informative Content
As data in the receive buffers of the communicators is consumed and space released, additional Credit
Control Subpackets MAY be sent.
The InitialCredit parameters of the StartSession and SyncSession methods provide each
communicator in a session the opportunity to provide an initial amount of credits for use when the
session successfully starts.  If either of these values is omitted, then once a session has been
successfully started, the communicator that omitted the value from the InitialCredit parameter of its
session startup method SHALL send to the other communicator a credit subpacket announcing its
available session buffer space.
Credit values are byte counts for the payload of data subpackets and do not include packet or
subpacket headers/overheads. Packets containing only ACK/NAK information, or only Credit Control
Subpackets, MAY be sent at any time regardless of how much credit the sender has.
The sender SHALL NOT send more data than it has credits from the receiver.  As the sender transmits
data, the amount of transmitted data is subtracted from the total credits that had been provided to the
sender.  This identifies the amount of data that MAY still be sent without receiving additional buffer
credits.
As the receiver consumes data, the receiver MAY notify the sender that it is able to receive additional
data.  This is done by transmitting a Credit Control Subpacket identifying how much additional buffer
space the sender is able to utilize. The number of bytes of data that are able to be sent to that session
SHALL be increased by the value of each credit received.  When a communicator transmits data, the
amount of data sent SHALL be subtracted from the credit total.
If buffer management is supported, credit subpackets SHALL be exchanged after ComID acquisition, so
that the host and TPer are able to exchange methods/responses on the control session.  This credit
only applies to the control session for that ComID.  Credit subpackets SHALL also be exchanged
immediately after session startup within the new session, unless values are posted in the InitialCredit
parameters, in which case additional credit subpackets are optional at that time.
Otherwise, Credit Control Subpackets SHOULD be sent infrequently and be bundled with other traffic,
in order to minimize interface overhead. Either communicator in a session MAY send Credit Control
Subpackets as frequently as in every packet, or when a threshold is reached (e.g. the unreported credit
is more than some percentage of the buffer size).
Violating flow control is one reason either side MAY abort a session.
