3.3.3 ComID Management
Begin Informative Content
A mechanism is required to enable dynamic management of ComIDs so as to minimize the chances of
two host applications using the same ComID in the rare occasions in which there are ComID conflicts.
Support for dynamic ComID management is SSC-specific.
End Informative Content
ComIDs SHALL be assigned based on the allocation presented in Table 26.
Table 26 ComID Assignments
```json
[
  {
    "ComID": "0x0000",
    "Description": "Reserved"
  },
  {
    "ComID": "0x0001",
    "Description": "Level 0 Device Discovery"
  },
  {
    "ComID": "0x0002-0x07FF",
    "Description": "Reserved for TCG"
  },
  {
    "ComID": "0x0800-0x0FFF",
    "Description": "Vendor Unique"
  },
  {
    "ComID": "0x1000-0xFFFF",
    "Description": "ComID management (Protocol ID=0x01, and 0x02) - these are \"non-reserved\" ComIDs"
  }
]
```

The lower 4096 out of the possible ComIDs SHALL be reserved – 0-2047 are reserved for TCG
use/assignment, and 2048-4095 are reserved as vendor-unique.   The other, non-reserved ComIDs
SHALL be used for multiplexing the TPer responses to IF-RECVs.
A ComID SHALL be in one of the following three states:
1. Inactive: The ComID has not been assigned to anyone since the last hardware reset or power
cycle, or because the ComID was retired due to all sessions on the ComID being closed.
2. Issued: The ComID has been issued (it was returned to the host during a successful
completion of a GET_COMID command) but no sessions have been started using this ComID.
3. Associated:  One or more open sessions are associated with the ComID.
ComIDs that are either in the Issued state or the Associated state are considered Active.  The state
diagram in Figure 4  shows these states and the possible transitions among them.

Figure 4  ComID State Transition Diagram

The possible state transitions are:
a. Inactive to Issued: A ComID SHALL transition from the Inactive state to the Issued state
when it is returned to the host during a successful execution of the GET_COMID command.
b. Issued to Associated: A ComID SHALL transition from the Issued state to the Associated
state once a session is open using that ComID.  This occurs at the point when session
startup has successfully completed.
c. Issued to Inactive: A ComID SHALL transition from Issued to Inactive when any one of the
following conditions hold:
i. There is a hardware reset or power cycle.
ii. The host does not start a session using the ComID within MaxComIDTime from the
ComID being issued.  MaxComIDTime defines a limit on the amount of time a
ComID is able to exist in the Issued state without an active session.  A TPer's
MaxComIDTime value is retrieved using the Properties method.  Support for
MaxComIDTime is SSC-dependent.
d. Associated to Inactive: A ComID SHALL transition from Associated to Inactive when any
of the following conditions are met:
i. There is a hardware reset or power cycle.
ii. After all sessions associated with the ComID are closed, and no session startup
activities are in progress.
In order to minimize the possibility of conflict, the ComID issuance mechanism SHALL have the
following two characteristics:
a. A ComID that is in an active state SHALL NOT be issued again.  That is, only ComIDs that
are in the inactive state SHALL be returned to the host as a response to the GET_COMID
command.
b. The TPer SHALL issue ComIDs in a sequential manner (wrapping around cyclically as
needed).
In addition to the above transitions, the TPer MAY transition a ComID to the Inactive state at any time
for any reason.
