3.4.2.2 Authorities
An authority is an object in the Authority table.  An authority is one of two kinds: Individual or Class.
Each individual authority MAY be a member of one class authority.  A class authority MAY be a
member of one class authority.  A class authority SHALL NOT refer directly to a credential.  An
individual authority specifies one credential and one operation that uses that credential.
Begin Informative Content
Class authorities are a convenient way to allow an ACE to be set on a method without enumerating all
the individual authorities that authorize that method. This means that the individual authorities that
belong to that class authority are able to be changed without having to change any of the ACEs that
refer to the class authority.
End Informative Content
A class authority SHALL be authenticated when any member of the class is authenticated. Class
authorities SHALL NOT be directly authenticated.
•
A credential is an object in a Credential table.  All credential tables have a name that starts with
"C_".  A credential table SHALL have at least one column that stores a secret.  It MAY also
have “public” parts, which contain information such as public keys and certificates.  A particular
credential MAY have only some of its columns filled in.  For example, if only a public key and
certificates validating that public key are known, then the private key columns are unused
(zeroes in these columns indicate that this information is not present).
Authentication to an authority SHALL occur within a session or during session startup, and SHALL
apply only to that session. All authorities that participate in successful session startup are authenticated
for that session.  During a session the host MAY make any number of Authenticate method
invocations.  There MAY be Security Subsystem Class-defined TPer and per session limits on the
maximum number of authorities that MAY be authenticated at any one time.
A set of authorities is defined by this specification. The AdminExch authority, of the class Admins, is
one such pre-defined authority.  Every SP has an AdminExch authority at time of issuance.  SSCs MAY
specify authorities in addition to these, or MAY restrict the use of the authorities specified in this
document.
For details regarding the Admins authority and other pre-defined authorities, refer to 5.3.4.1.2.
