4.3 Life Cycle State Transitions
This section identifies and describes the possible transitions between life cycle states as depicted in
Figure 10 .
a. Nonexistent/Issued
i. An SP transitions from Nonexistent to Issued when successful invocation of the
IssueSP method causes the SP to be created.  The SP SHALL be created in this state
if the SP is operational and if the value of the IssueSP method's parameter Enabled
was True.
ii. An SP transitions from Issued to Nonexistent when that SP is deleted.
b. Any State/Issued-Failed
i. An SP MAY transition into the Issued-Failed state if an unrecoverable write error or
other failure occurs. The TPer SHALL control entry to this state.
ii. The Failed state is a terminal state. The only exit available from the Failed state is to
the theoretical Nonexistent state, by invoking Delete on the SP's object in the Admin
SP's SP table.
c. Issued/Issued-Disabled
i. An SP is transitioned from the Issued state into the Issued-Disabled state by setting the
value of the Enabled column of the SP’s SPInfo table to False.
ii. An SP is transitioned from the Issued-Disabled state to the Issued state by setting the
value of the Enabled column of the SP's SPInfo table to True.
d. Issued/Issued-Frozen
i. An SP transitions from the Issued state into the Issued-Frozen state by setting the
value of the Frozen column of the SP's object in the Admin SP’s SP table to True.
ii. An SP transitions from the Issued-Frozen state into the Issued state by setting the
value of the Frozen column of the SP's object in the Admin SP’s SP table to False.
e. Issued-Disabled/Issued-Disabled-Frozen
i. An SP is transitioned from the Issued-Disabled state to the Issued-Disabled-Frozen
state by setting the value of the Frozen column of the SP's object in the Admin SP’s SP
table to True.
ii. An SP is transitioned from the Issued-Disabled-Frozen state to the Issued-Disabled
state by setting the value of the Frozen column of the SP's object in the Admin SP’s SP
table to False.
f.
Issued-Disabled/Nonexistent
i. The SP MAY be deleted, and thus enter the Nonexistent state, by successful invocation
of the DeleteSP method from within a session to the SP, or by successful invocation of
the Delete method on the SP's object in the Admin SP's SP table.
g. Issued-Frozen/Nonexistent
i. The SP MAY be deleted, and thus enter the Nonexistent state, by successful invocation
of the Delete method on the SP's object in the Admin SP's SP table.
h. Issued-Disabled-Frozen/Nonexistent
i. The SP MAY be deleted, and thus enter the Nonexistent state, by successful invocation
of the Delete method on the SP's object in the Admin SP's SP table.
