5.1.2 Types Encoding
Certain column types used in messaging as method parameters (particularly in the Set method) utilize
the interface grouping mechanisms (Named and List values) to provide clarity regarding the scope of
the transmitted values.
a. Simple types – values of this type require no special handling in the messaging stream.
b. Enumeration types – values of this type require no special handling in the messaging
stream.
c. Alternative types – values of this type are encoded in Get and Set methods as follows:
a. The Alternative column type is handled similarly to a Named value in a parameter list.
The Named value grouping tokens are used (SN and EN tokens, which represent
"StartName" and "EndName" respectively).  The Name for the pair is the last four bytes
of the UID ("half_uid") of the value's Type object.  The value in the Named value is the
value of the option being set to or retrieved from the column.
Example: When setting a 16-byte key value to the Key column of the K_AES_128 table, the
value would be encoded as:
F2 A400000202 D010000102030405060708090A0B0C0D0E0F F3
d. List type – values of this type are encoded as follows:
a. The List column type is handled in the same way a parameter list is handled, by using
the interface List value grouping tokens (F0 and F1 tokens, which represent "[" and "]"
respectively) to enclose the values in the list.
Example:  F0 tokenized_value tokenized _value tokenized _value F1
e. Restricted Reference types – values of this type require no special handling in the
messaging stream.
f.
General Reference types – values of this type require no special handling in the messaging
stream.
g. Named value types – values of this type are encoded as follows:
a. Values of this type are handled in the same way a Named value in a parameter list is
handled, by using the Named value grouping tokens (SN and EN tokens, which
represent "StartName" and "EndName" respectively) to enclose the name-value pair.
Example: F2 tokenized_name tokenized_value F3
h. Struct value types – Structs allow the creation of composite types by combining Named
value types and other types.  Values of the struct type are made up of either optional
Named value types, or other types that are required to be supplied.  The optional types
MAY NOT be included when sending values for a struct.  Values of this type are encoded
as follows:
a. The struct itself is delimited using the List value grouping tokens (F0 and F1 tokens,
which represent "[" and "]" respectively) to enclose the values in the struct.  The Named
values that make up the values stored in the struct are each grouped using the
interface Named value-grouping tokens (SN and EN tokens, which represent
"StartName" and "EndName" respectively) to enclose each name-value pair.
Example:  F0 F2 tokenized_name tokenized_value F3 F2 tokenized_name tokenized_value
F3 F1
i.
Set value types – values of this type are encoded as follows:
a. The Set column type is handled in the same way that the List type is handled, by using
the interface List value grouping tokens (F0 and F1 tokens, which represent "[" and "]"
respectively) to enclose the values in the Set.
Example: F0 tokenized_value tokenized_value F1
