5.1.4.2.3 cell_block
This type represents a grouping of Named values that are used to identify a portion of a table.  In
messaging, this grouping is enclosed by List value delimiters, and each component is enclosed by
Named value delimiters.
The name of each component is a uinteger representing the positioning of that component within the
grouping, as defined by this specification. The associated number also appears in the appropriate
component description.
Because this is a group of Named values, its separate components are optional.  However, there are
default requirements if components are omitted, and certain requirements for the values assigned to
these components depending on the context in which the method is invoked. These requirements are
as follows:
a. Table – this Named value has the Name "0x00" and a value that is a uid to a table.
a. If the value with Name "0x00" is omitted, then the operation defaults to the table upon
which the method was invoked.
b. Table SHALL be omitted if the method was invoked on an object.  If the method is
invoked on an object and the value with the name "0x00" is included in the method
parameterization, then the method SHALL fail.
c. Table SHALL be omitted for an invocation of the Get method on a table.  If the method
is invoked on a byte or object table and the value with the name “0x00” is included in
the method parameterization, then the method SHALL fail.
b. startRow – this Named value has the Name "0x01".  This Named value type is assigned
one of two values – either a uid of an object or a RowNumber that corresponds to the
RowNumber value of a bytes table row.  Only one of these two values SHALL appear in the
messaging stream.  The "typeOr" identifier and accompanying curly brackets ("{", "}") in the
format description below have no effect on the values as represented in the message.
a. If the value with Name "0x01" is omitted and the method is invoked on a byte table,
then the operation defaults to the first row of that byte table.
b. If the method is invoked on an object table, the value "0x01" SHALL be the uid of the
object upon which the method is intended to operate. If the value with Name "0x01" is
omitted in this case, then the method invocation SHALL fail.
i. If the uid of the object does not belong to the table upon which the method was
invoked, the method invocation SHALL fail.
c. If the method is invoked on an object and the value with the name "0x01" is included in
the method parameterization, then the method SHALL fail.
c. endRow – this Named value has the Name "0x02". This Named value type is a uinteger
that corresponds to the RowNumber value of a byte table row.
a. If the value with Name "0x02" is omitted and the method is invoked on a byte table,
then the operation defaults to the last row of the table.
b. If the method is invoked on an object or object table and the value with the name
"0x02" is included in the method parameterization, then the method SHALL fail.
d. startColumn – this Named value has the Name "0x03".  This Named value type has a
uinteger value that indicates the column number of the cellblock's start column.
a. If the value with Name "0x03" is omitted, then the operation defaults to the first column
of the table or object.
b. If the value with Name "0x03" is included in the method parameterization, and the
method is invoked on a byte table, then the method SHALL fail.
e. endColumn – this Named value has the Name "0x04".  This Named value type has a
uinteger value that indicates the column number of the cellblock's end column.
a. if the value with Name "0x04" is omitted, then the operation defaults to the last column
of the table or object.
b. If the value with Name "0x04" is included in the method parameterization, and the
method is invoked on a byte table, then the method SHALL fail.
Format:
[ Table = uidref, startRow = typeOr { UID : uidref, Row : uinteger }, endRow =
uinteger, startColumn = uinteger, endColumn = uinteger ]
