5.3.4.1.14.1 Authenticate Method Failures
Authenticate returns different status codes and return results dependant on the success or failure of
the method.
The nature of the Authenticate method prescribes two states:
a. Awaiting Challenge
b. Awaiting Challenge Response
Behavior of the Authenticate method when the SP is in the Awaiting Challenge state:
1. The method returns INVALID_PARAMETER with an empty result list if the following conditions
apply, and remains in the Awaiting Challenge state:
a. There is no authority supplied to the method, or an invalid authority (as in, an authority
that does not exist in the Authority table) is supplied to the method, or
b. A class authority is supplied to the method, or
c. An incorrect optional parameter identifier or extra parameters are supplied, or a proof is
supplied to a non-Password/non-Anybody authority.
2. If the conditions defined in 5.1.5.15 are met, the method SHALL either return
AUTHORITY_LOCKED_OUT with an empty result list and remain in the Awaiting Challenge
state, or follow the result and status behavior defined in 5 below.
3. If the Authenticate invocation does not violate any of the conditions in 1 and 2, above, and if
the following conditions are met, then the method returns SUCCESS with a result of True
(authentication succeeded), and remains in the Awaiting Challenge state:
a. The authority invoked in the method is a valid individual authority object in the
Authority table.
b. All of the authority’s attributes are appropriate for the existing session and
authentication attempt – the secure messaging properties are appropriate, the authority
is enabled, has an Operation column value of Password, etc.
c. The authority references a valid C_PIN credential or the authority is the Anybody
authority.
d. For authorities other than the Anybody authority, the correct password was submitted
to the Authenticate method invocation.
4. If the Authenticate invocation does not violate any of the conditions in 1 and 2 above, and if
the following conditions are met, then the method returns SUCCESS with a result of a 32-byte
challenge, and transitions to the Awaiting Challenge Response state:
a. The authority invoked in the method is a valid individual authority object in the
Authority table.
b. All of the authority’s attributes are appropriate for the existing session and
authentication attempt – the secure messaging properties are appropriate, the authority
is enabled, references a valid credential, etc.
5. If the Authenticate invocation does not violate any of the conditions in 1 and 2 above, and if
the following conditions are met, then the method returns SUCCESS with a result of False
(authentication failed), and remains in the Awaiting Challenge state:
a. The authority is a valid authority but one or more of its attributes are not appropriate or
valid – the secure messaging requirements have not been met, the authority is
disabled, the authority references an invalid credential, the authority has an Operation
column value of Exchange or TPerSign, etc.
b. The authority is a valid authority but an incorrect password is submitted to the
Authenticate method invocation.
Behavior of the Authenticate method when the SP is in the Awaiting Challenge Response state:
1. The method returns INVALID_PARAMETER with an empty result list if the following conditions
apply, and transitions to the Awaiting Challenge state:
a. There is no authority supplied to the method, or an invalid authority (as in, an authority
that does not exist in the Authority table) is supplied to the method
b. An incorrect optional parameter identifier or extra parameters are supplied.
2. If the Authenticate invocation does not violate any of the conditions in 1 above, and if the
following conditions are met,  then the method returns SUCCESS with a result of True
(authentication succeeded), and transitions to the Awaiting Challenge state:
a. The authority invoked in the method is a valid individual authority object in the
Authority table.
b. The authority invoked in the method is the same authority invoked in the initial
Authenticate invocation.
c. All of the authority’s attributes are appropriate for the existing session and
authentication attempt – the secure messaging properties are appropriate, the authority
is enabled, references a valid credential, etc.
d. The correct response was submitted to the Authenticate method invocation.
3. If the Authenticate invocation does not violate any of the conditions in 1 above, and if the
following conditions are met, then the method returns SUCCESS with a result of False
(authentication failed), and transitions to the Awaiting Challenge state:
a. The authority is a class authority.
b. The authority invoked in the method is not the same authority invoked in the initial
Authenticate invocation.
c. The authority is a valid authority but one or more of its attributes are not appropriate or
valid – the secure messaging requirements have not been met, the authority is
disabled, the authority references an invalid credential, the authority has exceed its
uses, etc.
d. The authority is a valid authority but an incorrect challenge response is submitted to the
Authenticate method invocation.
