5.3.4.1.14 Explicit Authentication with the Authenticate Method
In addition to authentication of authorities that participate in a successful startup of a session,
authentication of an authority MAY also be achieved through successful invocation of the
Authenticate method.
The Authenticate method is an SP method, and as such its Invoking ID parameter SHALL be
"ThisSP".
If the invoked authority requires password authentication (the value of the Operation column of the
invoked authority is “Password”), one call to Authenticate is made and the Proof parameter is the
password. The response is either True or False – True if authentication was successful and False if
authentication was unsuccessful.
If the authority requires challenge and response (the value of the Operation column of the authority is
“Sign”, “SymK”, or “HMAC”), the host invokes the Authenticate method twice. In the first invocation
the method parameter list SHALL consist of the Authority parameter, which references the valid
Authority object UID of the authority the host is attempting to authenticate. In the second invocation, the
Authority parameter SHALL be the same Authority object UID as referenced in the initial Authenticate
method invocation and the Proof parameter is the response to the SP’s challenge.  The Success
response is returned to the second invocation– this SHALL be either True if authentication was
successful or False if authentication was unsuccessful.
For authorities that require symmetric key challenge/response (have an Operation column value of
"SymK"), the Mode column value of that authority’s associated symmetric key credential SHALL be
"ECB".  If such an authority is invoked as the Authority parameter of the Authenticate method, the
result of the intial method invocation SHALL be a 32-byte nonce that is the challenge from the SP.
After receipt of the 32-byte challenge, the host SHALL encrypt that nonce using the appropriate
symmetric key, in ECB mode.  The host SHALL then transmit the encrypted challenge to the TPer as
the Challenge parameter of the second Authenticate method invocation.  The TPer SHALL then
validate the response.
If an attempt is made to invoke the Authenticate method on an authority that requires secure
messaging, and the required secure messaging parameters as defined in the Secure column of the
Authority table are not currently fulfilled, then the Authenticate method invocation SHALL fail.
When the Authenticate method invocation protocol requires the host to invoke the Authenticate
method twice, the second Authenticate method MAY be sent anytime during the session.  If the TPer
receives any Authenticate method after the first Authenticate method has been invoked, the TPer
SHALL attempt to resolve that authentication attempt, which SHALL fail if the second Authenticate
does not contain the appropriate response parameters.
The implementation MAY limit the number of authorities that are able to be authenticated at any one
time within a single session (as recorded in the MaxAuthentications value of the Properties method).
If the authentication attempt would cause the MaxAuthentications property value to be exceeded for the
session, a properly invoked Authenticate method SHALL return a status of SUCCESS and a result of
False.
