5.3.4.1.6 Secure Messaging Control
As indicated in section 5.3.4.1.4, control of secure messaging for a session is determined
independently for each communicator.  The authorities invoked in the StartSession method determine
the secure messaging types and algorithms required, and, based on the authorities included in the
session startup, the encrypting credential used to exchange session key(s) for secure messaging.
If the Host Signing Authority is invoked in StartSession, this authority determines if secure messaging
is required on messages from the Host to the TPer, and the type of secure messaging.  In this
circumstance, the Host Signing Authority is the “Host Control Authority” for messaging from the Host to
the TPer.
If the Host Signing Authority is not present, and the Host Exchange Authority is present, the Host
Exchange Authority determines if secure messaging is required on messages from the Host to the
TPer, and the type of secure messaging.  In this circumstance, the Host Exchange Authority is the
“Host Control Authority” for messaging from the Host to the TPer.
If the Host Signing Authority is the “Host Control Authority”, its Response (SP) Signing and Response
(SP) Exchange Authorities determine the authorities used to represent the SP.  If the Host Signing
Authority is not invoked in StartSession, and the Host Exchange Authority is, it is the Host Exchange
Authority that is the “Host Control Authority” whose Response Signing and Response Exchange
Authorities determine the authorities used to represent the SP.
If the Response (SP) Signing Authority is linked from the “Host Control Authority”, it is considered the
“SP Control Authority”, and determines if secure messaging is required on messages from the TPer to
the Host, and the type of secure messaging.  If the Response (SP) Signing Authority is not linked from
the “SP Control Authority” and the Response (SP) Exchange Authority is, then it is the Response (SP)
Exchange Authority that serves as the “SP Control Authority” and determines if secure messaging is
required on messages from the TPer to the Host, and the type of secure messaging.
If the value of a “Control Authority’s” Secure column is 0, then secure messaging SHALL NOT be
permitted for messaging from that communicator for the session to start successfully – all messaging
exchanges for sessions controlled by that authority SHALL be in plaintext.
