5.6.5.3 HMAC
Invocation of the HMACInit method, followed be one or more HMAC method invocations and the
HMACFinalize method on a H_SHA_* object, causes the data parameterized in or referenced from the
HMAC method invocation to have a message authentication code computed on that input data using the
H_SHA_* object upon which the method was invoked, the HMAC key referenced from that H_SHA_*
object, and the HMAC algorithm described in [13].
An HMAC “stream” is initiated using the HMACInit method invoked upon a hash object.  Only one
HMAC “stream” SHALL be open at any one time for any individual hash object.
During a session, invoking the HMACInit method on a hash object after invoking HMACInit on that
object but before invoking the HMACFinalize method SHALL cause the second HMACInit method
invocation to fail.  The HMACInit method SHALL be invoked prior to invocation of the HMAC method.
Successful invocation of the HMAC method causes the data input to be hashed on block boundaries as
they are reached.  Intermediate results are stored as internal state and are not accessible from the
host.
The HMAC method SHALL accept either bytes passed across the interface as a parameter of the method
invocation; or SHALL identify a cellblock that holds the data to be hashed.  If the data is addressed via
cellblock, the host SHALL fulfill access control requirements necessary to invoke the Get method on the
entirety of that cellblock, or the HMAC method invocation SHALL fail.
Successful invocation of the HMAC method returns the input data that was consumed in the hash
method.
Upon invocation of the HMACFinalize method, the TPer flushes the remaining, non-blocked data
through the hash function represented by the invoking hash object, computes the HMAC, and sets the
result to the BufferOut cellblock if specified.  If the BufferOut cellblock is specified, the host SHALL be
required to fulfill access control requirements necessary to successfully invoke the Set method on the
entirety of that cellblock.
If the BufferOut cellblock has been specified in the HMACFinalize method invocation, that cellblock
SHALL be larger than or equal to the size of the HMAC calculation result or the HMACFinalize method
invocation SHALL fail.
If the BufferOut cellblock has not been supplied, the HMAC result is set to the Accumulator column of
the invoking hash object.
The HMACFinalize method invocation SHALL return the data that had been supplied as input to the
HMAC method that had not yet been consumed.
Invoking HMAC or HMACFinalize on a hash object that does not have an open “stream” SHALL cause
that method invocation to fail.
