5.6.4.10 Verify (Object Method)
This method MAY be invoked on a hash object or a public key credential.  It is used to verify a signed
hash against a proof.
CredentialObjectUID.Verify [
HashObjectUID.Verify [
Input : typeOr { Data : bytes, Buffer : cell_block},
Data : typeOr { Proof : bytes, ProofBuffer : cell_block } ]
=>
[ Result : boolean ]

5.6.4.10.1
Input
The value of the Input parameter MAY be either a bytes value, wherein bytes to be verified are passed
as a parameter of the method; or a cellblock that addresses a subset of a table on the SP that holds the
data to be verified.
5.6.4.10.1.1
Data
This input parameter is used to supply bytes directly from the host for verification.
5.6.4.10.1.2
Buffer
This input parameter is used to identify a block of table cells where the data to be verified is stored.  If
the host invokes the Verify method using the data addressed via the cellblock as data input, then in
addition to fulfilling the access control on the Verify method, the host SHALL also fulfill the access
control required to invoke the Get method on the entirety of that cellblock.
5.6.4.10.2
Data
The value of the Data parameter identifies the data that the Input is to be compared against.  The value
of this parameter MAY be either a bytes value, wherein the proof data bytes are passed as a parameter
of the method; or a cellblock that addresses a subset of a table on the SP that holds the proof data.
5.6.4.10.2.1
Proof
This input parameter is used to supply bytes directly from the host against which the data input is to be
verified.
5.6.4.10.2.2
ProofBuffer
This input parameter is used to identify a block of table cells where the data to be verified against
stored.  If the host invokes the Verify method using the data addressed via the cellblock as data input,
then in addition to fulfilling the access control on the Verify method, the host SHALL also fulfill the
access control required to invoke the Get method on the entirety of that cellblock.
5.6.4.10.3
Verify Result
5.6.4.10.3.1
Result
The result of this method invocation is a Boolean value that is True if the verification of the data against
the proof is successful, and False otherwise.
5.6.4.10.4
Fails
a. If the invoking object does not exist.
b. If the invoking credential object is not a valid public key credential (RSA, EC).
c. If the invoking hash object does not reference a public key credential.
d. If the host application has not fulfilled the access control requirements necessary to invoke
the Get method on the DataInput or Proof cellblock.
e. If the DataInput or Proof are not valid cellblocks.
