5.7.3.7 Re-encryption
The host has the following re-encryption responsibilities:
a. Configures re-encryption options
b. Initiates re-encryption operations
c. Manages error recovery strategy when TPer detects errors. The host defines the next re-
encryption state
d. Optionally, acknowledge re-encryption completion
The TPer has the following re-encryption responsibilities:
a. Maintain persistent re-encryption state and status information across power cycles.
b. Quiesce and report re-encryption state and status
c. Detect re-encryption errors, completion and reset conditions
Re-encryption and read commands and write commands are concurrent activities. Re-encryption is a
TPer background task. As such, synchronization between read command and write command
processing and background re-encryption processing is required. The means by which this
synchronization is accomplished is implementation dependent. However, the normal Storage Device
firmware requires a way to view the re-encryption process so that the proper encryption keys are
selected for user data read commands and write commands.
Attempts to modify the RangeStart and RangeLength columns of a Locking object that is undergoing
re-encryption (the Locking object's ReEncryptState column value is not IDLE) SHALL fail and return a
non-success status (FAIL) for the invoked method.
Attempts to delete a Locking object that has a ReEncryptState column of ACTIVE SHALL fail and
return a non-success status (FAIL) for the invoked method.
When the Global Locking Range is undergoing re-encryption (the Global Range's ReEncryptState
column value is not IDLE):
a. Attempts to modify the RangeStart and RangeLength columns of any Locking object
SHALL fail and return a non-success status (FAIL) for the invoked method.
b. Attempts to delete any Locking object SHALL fail and return a non-success status (FAIL)
for the invoked method.
c. Attempts to create a new Locking object SHALL fail and return a non-success status
(FAIL) for the invoked method.
