5.1.2.2 Effects of Revert
Upon successful invocation of the Revert method, the following changes SHALL be made:
• If the Locking SP is not in the “Manufactured-Inactive” life cycle state, then successful invocation of the
Revert method on the Locking SP or Admin SP SHALL cause user data removal as defined by the
ActiveDataRemovalMechanism (see Table 33) and cause the media encryption keys to be eradicated, which
has the side effect of securely erasing all data in the User LBA portion of the Storage Device.
• If the Locking SP is in the “Manufactured-Inactive” life cycle state, then successful invocation of the Revert
method on the Locking SP SHALL NOT cause user data removal in the Storage Device.
Interactions with interface commands during the processing of the Revert method are defined in [4].
If any TCG reset occurs prior to completing user data removal and the eradication of all media encryption keys in the
Storage Device, then the Revert operation SHALL be aborted and the Locking SP SHALL NOT revert to its Original
Factory State.
Start of Informative Comment
If any TCG reset occurs during the processing of the Revert method, the result of user data removal is undefined
and the TPer does not erase personalization of the Locking SP. For example, the PIN column value for each row in
C_PIN table is unchanged.
End of Informative Comment
Upon completion of user data removal and the eradication of all media encryption keys in the Storage Device, or if
the Locking SP is in the “Manufactured-Inactive” life cycle state, the following changes SHALL be made:
• The row in the Admin SP’s SP table that represents the invoked SP SHALL revert to its original factory values.
TCG Storage Security Subsystem Class (SSC): Opal
TCG Storage Security Subsystem Class (SSC): Opal | Version 2.30 | 1/30/2025 | PUBLISHED Page 92 © TCG 2025
• The SP itself SHALL revert to its Original Factory State. While reverting to its Original Factory State, the TPer
SHALL securely erase all personalization of the SP, and return personalized values to their Original Factory
State values. The mechanism for erasure of personalization is implementation-specific.
• When the Revert method is successfully invoked on the SP object for the Admin SP (UID = 0x00 00 02
05 00 00 00 01), the entire TPer SHALL revert to its Original Factory State, including:
o All Admin SP personalization with the exception of the PIN column value of the C_PIN_SID object.
See section 5.1.2.2.1 for the effects of the Revert method upon the PIN column value of the
C_PIN_SID object.
o All issued SPs SHALL be deleted, and all Manufactured SPs SHALL revert to Original Factory State.
Manufactured SPs in the “Manufactured-Inactive” life cycle state SHALL NOT be affected.
• Any TPer functionality affected by the life cycle state of the SP based on the templates incorporated into it is
modified as defined in the appropriate Template reference section of [2], and as defined in the “State
transitions for Manufactured SPs” section (see section 5.2.2.2) and “State behaviors for Manufactured SPs”
section (see section 5.2.2.3) of this specification.
Start of Informative Comment
Unless already in the Manufactured-Inactive life cycle state, reverting the Locking SP will cause the media encryption
keys to be eradicated, which has the side effect of securely erasing all data in the User LBA portion of the Storage
Device.
End of Informative Comment